README.md, before:

# Documentation for Bingo Card Generator

This Python script generates bingo cards with customizable grids, titles, and text content. The cards are saved as images with a professional layout, making them ideal for events or games.

---

## Overview

### Features:
- Reads questions from a text file.
- Automatically arranges questions into an optimal grid layout.
- Dynamically adjusts font size to fit text within cells.
- Creates visually appealing bingo cards with a title and grid.
- Supports multiple bingo cards generation in a single run.

### Libraries Used:
- `PIL (Pillow)`: For image creation and drawing.
- `numpy`: For mathematical calculations.
- `textwrap`: For text wrapping.
- `random`: For shuffling questions.
- `os`: For directory and file handling.

---

## Functions

### 1. **`get_questions`**
```python
def get_questions() -> list[str]:
```
Reads questions from `questions.txt`, replaces unwanted characters, shuffles the questions, and returns them as a list.

- **Returns:** `list[str]` - List of cleaned and shuffled questions.

---

### 2. **`best_rectangle_shape`**
```python
def best_rectangle_shape(n: int) -> tuple[int, int]:
```
Determines the optimal rectangular grid shape (rows, columns) for a given number of elements to minimize the difference between rows and columns.

- **Parameters:**
  - `n (int)`: Total number of elements.
- **Returns:** `tuple[int, int]` - Optimal `(rows, cols)` grid shape.

---

### 3. **`find_optimal_font_size`**
```python
def find_optimal_font_size(draw: ImageDraw, text: str, max_width: int, max_height: int, font_path: str ="arial.ttf", start_size: int=24) -> tuple[ImageFont, list[str]]:
```
Finds the largest font size that fits the given text within specified dimensions, wrapping text as necessary.

- **Parameters:**
  - `draw (ImageDraw)`: Instance used for text measurement.
  - `text (str)`: The text to be displayed.
  - `max_width (int)`: Maximum allowed width for the text.
  - `max_height (int)`: Maximum allowed height for the text.
  - `font_path (str)`: Path to the font file.
  - `start_size (int)`: Initial font size to test.
- **Returns:** 
  - `ImageFont`: Font object with the optimal size.
  - `list[str]`: Wrapped lines of text.

---

### 4. **`draw_question`**
```python
def draw_question(image: ImageDraw, question: str, x_offset: int, y_offset: int, cell_size: int, font_path: str="roboto.ttf") -> None:
```
Draws a question centered within a square cell on the image.

- **Parameters:**
  - `image (Image)`: The image canvas for drawing.
  - `question (str)`: Text to display.
  - `x_offset (int)`: X-coordinate of the cell's top-left corner.
  - `y_offset (int)`: Y-coordinate of the cell's top-left corner.
  - `cell_size (int)`: Size of the square cell.
  - `font_path (str)`: Path to the font file.

---

### 5. **`draw_card`**
```python
def draw_card(name: str, questions: list[str], title: str = "Bingo Card", padding: int = 20, count: int = 1) -> None:
```
Creates a bingo card image with a title and a grid layout of questions.

- **Parameters:**
  - `name (str)`: Name of the output image file (without extension).
  - `questions (list[str])`: List of questions to populate the grid.
  - `title (str)`: Title displayed at the top of the card.
  - `padding (int)`: Padding around the title and grid.
  - `count (int)`: Card count identifier for saving multiple images.

---

### 6. **`bingo`**
```python
def bingo(name: str, count: int=1) -> None:
```
Generates one or more bingo cards with questions fetched from the text file.

- **Parameters:**
  - `name (str)`: Name of the output image file (without extension).
  - `count (int)`: Number of bingo cards to generate.

---

## How to Use

1. **Prepare the Questions:**
   - Create a text file named `questions.txt` in the same directory as the script.
   - Add one question per line.

2. **Run the Script:**
   - Execute the script from the command line or an IDE:
     ```bash
     python bingo_card_generator.py
     ```
   - By default, it generates one card. Modify the `count` argument in the `bingo` function to create multiple cards.

3. **Locate the Output:**
   - Generated bingo cards are saved in the `generated_bingocards` folder.

---

## Example

### Input (`questions.txt`):
```text
What is your favorite holiday activity?
Name a Christmas song you love.
Describe the perfect winter day.
...
```

### Output:
- A bingo card image with a title and grid of questions.
- Example filename: `generated_bingocards/card_bingo_1.png`.

---

## Error Handling
- If the font file is not found, it defaults to the system’s basic font.
- Ensures graceful fallback for invalid font sizes or file paths.

---

## Customization
- Change `cell_size`, `title`, and `padding` in the `draw_card` function for personalized designs.
- Modify `font_path` to use different fonts. Ensure the `.ttf` file is available locally.

Commit message:

Update README to indicate experimental status and add festive context

README.md, after:

# Documentation for Bingo Card Generator

# :warning: Experimental and very nightly version

This Python script generates bingo cards with customizable grids, titles, and text content. The cards are saved as images with a professional layout, making them ideal for events or games. For the meme and having fun at christmas lunch

---

## Overview

### Features:
- Reads questions from a text file.
- Automatically arranges questions into an optimal grid layout.
- Dynamically adjusts font size to fit text within cells.
- Creates visually appealing bingo cards with a title and grid.
- Supports multiple bingo cards generation in a single run.

### Libraries Used:
- `PIL (Pillow)`: For image creation and drawing.
- `numpy`: For mathematical calculations.
- `textwrap`: For text wrapping.
- `random`: For shuffling questions.
- `os`: For directory and file handling.

---

## Functions

### 1. **`get_questions`**
```python
def get_questions() -> list[str]:
```
Reads questions from `questions.txt`, replaces unwanted characters, shuffles the questions, and returns them as a list.

- **Returns:** `list[str]` - List of cleaned and shuffled questions.

---

### 2. **`best_rectangle_shape`**
```python
def best_rectangle_shape(n: int) -> tuple[int, int]:
```
Determines the optimal rectangular grid shape (rows, columns) for a given number of elements to minimize the difference between rows and columns.

- **Parameters:**
  - `n (int)`: Total number of elements.
- **Returns:** `tuple[int, int]` - Optimal `(rows, cols)` grid shape.

---

### 3. **`find_optimal_font_size`**
```python
def find_optimal_font_size(draw: ImageDraw, text: str, max_width: int, max_height: int, font_path: str ="arial.ttf", start_size: int=24) -> tuple[ImageFont, list[str]]:
```
Finds the largest font size that fits the given text within specified dimensions, wrapping text as necessary.

- **Parameters:**
  - `draw (ImageDraw)`: Instance used for text measurement.
  - `text (str)`: The text to be displayed.
  - `max_width (int)`: Maximum allowed width for the text.
  - `max_height (int)`: Maximum allowed height for the text.
  - `font_path (str)`: Path to the font file.
  - `start_size (int)`: Initial font size to test.
- **Returns:** 
  - `ImageFont`: Font object with the optimal size.
  - `list[str]`: Wrapped lines of text.

---

### 4. **`draw_question`**
```python
def draw_question(image: ImageDraw, question: str, x_offset: int, y_offset: int, cell_size: int, font_path: str="roboto.ttf") -> None:
```
Draws a question centered within a square cell on the image.

- **Parameters:**
  - `image (Image)`: The image canvas for drawing.
  - `question (str)`: Text to display.
  - `x_offset (int)`: X-coordinate of the cell's top-left corner.
  - `y_offset (int)`: Y-coordinate of the cell's top-left corner.
  - `cell_size (int)`: Size of the square cell.
  - `font_path (str)`: Path to the font file.

---

### 5. **`draw_card`**
```python
def draw_card(name: str, questions: list[str], title: str = "Bingo Card", padding: int = 20, count: int = 1) -> None:
```
Creates a bingo card image with a title and a grid layout of questions.

- **Parameters:**
  - `name (str)`: Name of the output image file (without extension).
  - `questions (list[str])`: List of questions to populate the grid.
  - `title (str)`: Title displayed at the top of the card.
  - `padding (int)`: Padding around the title and grid.
  - `count (int)`: Card count identifier for saving multiple images.

---

### 6. **`bingo`**
```python
def bingo(name: str, count: int=1) -> None:
```
Generates one or more bingo cards with questions fetched from the text file.

- **Parameters:**
  - `name (str)`: Name of the output image file (without extension).
  - `count (int)`: Number of bingo cards to generate.

---

## How to Use

1. **Prepare the Questions:**
   - Create a text file named `questions.txt` in the same directory as the script.
   - Add one question per line.

2. **Run the Script:**
   - Execute the script from the command line or an IDE:
     ```bash
     python bingo_card_generator.py
     ```
   - By default, it generates one card. Modify the `count` argument in the `bingo` function to create multiple cards.

3. **Locate the Output:**
   - Generated bingo cards are saved in the `generated_bingocards` folder.

---

## Example

### Input (`questions.txt`):
```text
What is your favorite holiday activity?
Name a Christmas song you love.
Describe the perfect winter day.
...
```

### Output:
- A bingo card image with a title and grid of questions.
- Example filename: `generated_bingocards/card_bingo_1.png`.

---

## Error Handling
- If the font file is not found, it defaults to the system’s basic font.
- Ensures graceful fallback for invalid font sizes or file paths.

---

## Customization
- Change `cell_size`, `title`, and `padding` in the `draw_card` function for personalized designs.
- Modify `font_path` to use different fonts. Ensure the `.ttf` file is available locally.
